2015年在职研究生面试常见问题及参考回答（中英对照)
http://zaizhi.eol.cn　　中国教育在线　　　　2016-01-06　　大　中　小

MBA面试问题及技巧MBA名校巡礼访谈1月MBA联考真题答案商学院报考调查问卷2014年MBA复试分数线MBA教育的那些第一
　　在职研究生复试在面试中通过英文进行自我介绍之后，老师很可能会开始问大家一些问题，这里列出一些常见的问题，可以认真准备。注意在准备的过程中，要结合自己的经历和见解来准备答案，让自己回答的问题和整个的自我介绍融为一个整体。要不然很容易被考官抓住把柄，问个没完，很容易因紧张而露出马脚。
　　在每一年的面试中都会有很多相同的问题，这些问题看起来很平常，却有很多陷阱，一不小心就会被考官抓主小辫子了。回答这些常见的看起来很平常的问题，是很有艺术的。
    传统面试问题(Sample Traditional Interview Questions)
　　1、"What can you tell me about yourself?" ("关于你自己，你能告诉我些什么?")
　　This is not an invitation to give your life history. The interviewer is looking for 
clues about your character, qualifications, ambitions, and motivations. 
这一问题如果面试没有安排自我介绍的时间的话。这是一个必问的问题。考官并不希望你大谈你的个人历史。
是在寻找有关你性格、资历、志向和生活动力的线索。来判断你是否适合读MBA。
　　The following is a good example of a positive response. "In high school I was involved in competitive sports and I always tried to improve in each sport I participated in. As a college student, I worked in a clothing store part-time and found that I could sell things easily. The sale was important, but for me, it was even more important to make sure that the customer was
　　satisfied. It was not long before customers came back to the store and specifically asked for me to help them. I'm very competitive and it means a lot to me to be the best."
　　下面是一个积极正面回答的好例子："在高中我参加各种竞争性体育活动，并一直努力提高各项运动的成绩。
大学期间，我曾在一家服装店打工，我发现我能轻而易举地将东西推销
　　出去。销售固然重要，但对我来说，更重要的是要确信顾客能够满意。
不久便有顾客返回那家服装店点名让我为他们服务。我很有竞争意识，力求完美对我很重要。"


现在我家庭和睦稳定，工作认真努力，乐于接受新的事物，并且相比多数
年轻人，我学习效率很高，乐于接受和完成挑战，我相信有付出就会有回报，也期望自己能够不断努力获得更大的成就。
Now my family is harmonious and stable, I work hard, I am willing to accept new things, 
and compared with most of the young people, I am very efficient in learning, 
and I am willing to accept and complete challenges. 
I believe that there will be rewards when I have paid. I also hope that I can 
continue to strive for greater achievements.


　　2、 "What would you like to be doing five years after graduation?"("在毕业以后5年内你想做些什么?")
　　Know what you can realistically accomplish. You can find out by talking to others MBA about what they accomplished in their first five years with a particular company after graduation.
　　"I hope to do my best I can be at my job and because many in this line of work are promoted to area manager, I am planning on that also."
　　你要清楚你实际上能胜任什么。你可以事先和其他的MBA交流一番。问问他们在毕业后在公司的头5年都做了些什么。
　　可以这样回答："我希望能在我的职位上尽力做好工作，由于在同一领域工作的许多人都被提为区域负责人，所以我亦有此打算。"


　　3. "What is your greatest strength"?" ("你最突出的优点是什么?") 这是很多面试考官喜欢问的一个问题。
　　This is a real opportunity to toot your own horn. Do not brag or get too egotistical,
 but let the employer know that you believe in yourself and that you know your strengths.
 这是你"展示自己"的最佳机会，不要吹嘘自己或过于自负，但要让雇主知道你相信自己，你知道自己的优点。如可答
 
　　"I feel that my strongest asset is my ability to stick to things to get them done. 
I feel a real sense of accomplishment when I finish a job and it turns out just as I'd planned.
 I've set some high goals for myself. For example, I want to graduate with highest distinction. 
 And even though I had a slow start in my freshman year,
  I made up for it by doing an honor's thesis."
　　"我认为我最大的优点是能够执着地尽力把事情办好。当做完一件工作而其成果又正合我的预想时，我会有一种真正的成就感。
我给自己定了一些高目标。比如说，我要成为出色的毕业生。尽管在大学一年级时我启动慢了些，但最终我以优等论文完成了学业。

 4. "What is your greatest weakness?"("你最大的弱点是什么?")
　　You cannot avoid this question by saying that you do not have any, 
everyone has weaknesses. The best approach is to admit your weakness 
but show that you are working on it and have a plan to overcome it. 
If possible, cite a weakness that will work to the company's advantage. 
"I' m such a perfectionist that I won't stop until a job is well done.
　　你不应该说你没有任何弱点，以此来回避这个问题;每个人都有弱点。最佳策略是承认你的弱点，
但同时表明你在予以改进，并有克服弱点的计划。
　　可能的话，你可说出一项可能会给公司带来好处的弱点，
如可说："我是一个完美主义者。工作做得不漂亮，我是不会撒手的。"

我很多时候过分迷恋技术而忽视了跟同事的合作沟通，也忽视了管理能力的提升，导致工作越多，越是跨部门合作的时候，
困难越多。来重新学习就是为了提升自己，纠正自己。
Most of the time,  I pay too much attention to technology and neglect the cooperation 
and communication with colleagues and the improvement of management ability. 
As a result, the more I work, the more cross department cooperation,
The more difficult it is. 
Today,for me,to learn is to improve and correct myself.

　　5. "How do you feel about your progress to date?" ("对于你至今所取得的进步你是怎样看的?")
　　Never apologize for what you have done.
　　"I think I did well in school. In fact, in a number of courses I received the 
highest exam scores in the class." "As an intern for the X Company,
 I received some of the highest evaluations that had been given in years.
　　绝不要对你以前的所作所为表示内疚。
　　如可答："我认为我在学校表现不错。事实上，有好几门功课我的成绩居全班第一。""在某公司实习时，
我获得了该公司数年来给予其雇员的好几项最高评价。"

第一我相信付出就有回报，所以我努力工作，第二，好的教育和不断的学习，对提升自己和更好的完成工作非常有帮助。

	First of all, I believe that there will be rewards when I have paid.
so I always word hard.In the second,good education and continuous 
learning are very helpful to improve myself and finish the work better. 

1.Where do you come from?
	I come from Shenzhen, Guangdong Province
	I come from Weifang City, Shandong Province
	I come from Linqu County, Weifang City, Shandong Province
	
2.What kind of landscape surrounds your hometown?
	我的家乡坐落在国家级5A旅游景区沂山脚下，山清水秀，群山环绕。山上出产很多蔬菜水果，比如苹果，葡萄，樱桃等。
	所以是一个旅游度假的好地方。
	
	My hometown is located at the foot of Yishan mountain, a national 5A tourist attraction, 
	surrounded by beautiful mountains and rivers. 
	There are many fruits and vegetables on the mountain, 
	such as apples, grapes, cherries and so on. So it's a good place to go on holiday.
	
3.What do you do during the Spring Festival?
	
4.Tell me something about the customs of your hometown.
	我家乡是山东潍坊，我们那的人都非常热情好客，喜欢喝酒，每年春节期间都会走亲访友，大家一起
	喝酒聊天。我们那边风筝特别出名，风筝文化非常深厚，所以如果到了我的家乡，可以体验风筝。
	
	My hometown is Weifang, Shandong Province. The people in my hometome are very 
	hospitable and like to drink. We will visit relatives and friends 
	during the Spring Festival every year.
	We will drink and chat together. Our kites are very 
	famous and the kite culture is very deep, 
	so if you come to my hometown, you can experience kites.

5.Could you tell me something about your family?
	There are four people in my family. 
	They are my wife, daughter and son. 
	My daughter is 4 years old and my son is 2 years old. 
	They are very cute. My wife works in the company, 
	and my daughter starts kindergarten. 
	I will take them to the park when I have free time. 
	On the whole, my family is harmonious and happy.
6.What social responsibilities should a post-graduate take?
	首先研究生属于高层次的人才，所以应当具备专业的
	知识和解决问题的能力并能够为社会的发展和技术的进步
	做出贡献。其次，受过良好教育的他们
	应该热爱自己的祖国并且具有良好的道德素质。
	
	First of all, post-graduate students are high-level talents, 
	so they should have professional
	Knowledge and ability to solve problems and be able to 
	make a contribution to social development and technological progress
	. Second, they are well educated
	We should love our motherland and have good moral quality.
	
7.Which kind of professor do you like best?

8.What does friendship mean to you and what kind of people do you make friend with?

9.What is your major? How do you like your major?

10.When and where did you graduate? What qualifications have you obtained?

11.What impressed you most when you were at university?

12.What is the best university in your opinion?

13.Do you think the subjects you are studying today are relevant to present-day society? Why?

14.What do you do for a living?

15.What are your job prospects?

16.If you had the opportunity to change your subject, what would you do with it?

17.What are your spare time interests?

18.Where have you been traveling to? Which place interested you most?

19.What kind of differences in the system of higher education between China and other countries?

20.Do you think you will be able to cope with English demands of your intended study program?

21.What difficulties do you think you'll encounter in your studies?

22.Why did you choose our university?

23.If there were an opportunity of studying abroad, what would you do?

24.Should you study more theory or do more practice? Give your reasons,please.

25.What do you intend to do after you finish studying?

26.How serious is unemployment among young people and what will you do if you cannot find a job after graduation?

27.In your opinion, what are the most serious problems associated with modern life?

28.What do you think have been the most important changes in your study field over the past 5 years?

29.How do you afford your tuition?

30.Does your family support your decision on studying? What help do they offer?

Do you have a career plan in 5 years?

Why do you want to be a part of MBA students?

If you failed this time what will you do in the near future?

Would you please make a brief introduction about yourself?

What's your opinion about the requirement that a MBA student must have working experience?

How communication works in organizations?

Say a little about teamwork.

Say a little about management.